State Management System is a mechanism to track the user state, or data, which is significant with particular application. 

There are two types: 

a.Client Side state Management the state related information will directly get stored on the client-side. That specific information will travel back and communicate with every request generated by the user then afterwards provides responses after server-side communication. ASP.NET provides several techniques for storing state information on the client. 

These include the following:

1. View State: If the user wants to maintain or store their data temporarily after a post-back.. In this case VIEW STATE is the most used and preferred way of doing that. 

    

   ```
   protected void Page_Load(object sender, EventArgs e)
   {
       if (IsPostBack)
       {
           if (ViewState["count"] != null)
           {
               int ViewstateVal = Convert.ToInt32(ViewState["count"]) + 1;
               Label1.Text = ViewstateVal.ToString();
               ViewState["count"]=ViewstateVal.ToString();
           }
           else
           {
               ViewState["count"] = "1";
           }
       }
   }
   protected void Button1_Click(object sender, EventArgs e)
   {
          Label1.Text=ViewState["count"].ToString();
   }
   ```

   

2. Control State: The data that is associated with the server controls is called as control state. You can persist information about a control that is not part of the view state. If view state is disabled for a control or the page, the control state will still work.

3. Hidden Files: It store data without displaying that control and data to the user’s browser. This data is presented back to the server and is available when the form is processed. Hidden fields data is available within the page only 

4. Cookies: Cookies are small piece of information that server creates on the browser.

5. Query String: In query strings values are stored at the end of the URL. These values are visible to the user through his or her browser’s address bar. Query strings are not secure.

   ```
   protected void Button1_Click(object sender, EventArgs e)   
   {  
       Response.Redirect("WebForm2.aspx?firstname=" + TextBox1.Text);  
   }  
   protected void Page_Load(object sender, EventArgs e)   
   {  
       string firstname = Request.QueryString["firstname"];   
       Label1.Text = "welcome" + firstname;  
   }  
   ```

   

b.Server Side state management
It is another way which ASP.NET provides to store the user's specific information or the state of the application on the server machine. 

This management technique basically makes use of the following: 

1.Session: For each and every user, a separate Session is created, and each and every Session has its Unique ID. This ID is being stored in the client's machine using cookies. If there are multiple users who are accessing a web application, then for each user a separate Session is created. If a single user logs in and logs out the Session is killed, then if the same user again logs into the application, then a new Session ID is being created for the same user

. a.Session Start  b.Session End

 2.Application: Application object is used to store information at application level rather than user level. All pages of your application can access the Application object. Application variables are stored on a web server.